# term-cmd

[![MELPA](https://melpa.org/packages/term-cmd-badge.svg)](https://melpa.org/#/term-cmd)
[![MELPA Stable](https://stable.melpa.org/packages/term-cmd-badge.svg)](https://stable.melpa.org/#/term-cmd)

Send commands to Emacs from programs running in term.el.

In vanilla Emacs, programs running in term.el can send commands back to Emacs by
printing a 'magic escape sequence' which the terminal emulator parses -- this is
how directory tracking works. But the list of commands is hard-coded, and you
can't add new ones.

This package lets you add new commands. It uses a different magic escape
sequence to avoid interfering with the built-in commands, but the principle is
the same. When a program prints a command, it won't show up on the screen, but
will instead be interpreted by Emacs.

This is a library, and doesn't make any user-visible changes. For an example of
something that uses it, see
[term-alert](https://github.com/calliecameron/term-alert).

## Usage

To register a command:

```elisp
(add-to-list
 'term-cmd-commands-alist
 '("command" . some-callback-function))
```

where `"command"` is the name of the command, and `some-callback-function` is
the function you want to be called when the command is run. The function should
take two arguments -- the first is the command name itself, and the second is
the command's argument.

To send a command, use the `emacs-term-cmd` script:

```shell
emacs-term-cmd command arg
```

If called outside Emacs, this does nothing (i.e. it won't mess things up).

Because the commands are based on terminal output, they work just as well
through nested shells, multiple SSH sessions, or tmux (not 100% reliable -- see
comments in `emacs-term-cmd`).

## Installation

Install the `term-cmd` package from MELPA.

The `emacs-term-cmd` command will always be on the `PATH` of any shell launched
from Emacs. However, for full functionality you should add ~/.emacs.d/term-cmd
(or wherever your `user-emacs-directory` is) to the `PATH` in your environment
or shell's startup files, too (e.g. ~/.profile, ~/.bashrc, ~/.zshrc, etc.), on
any machine you often SSH into; this will allow shells inside tmux or on other
machines to send commands back to Emacs on your local machine.

## License

Copyright (C) 2014--2023 Callie Cameron

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the Free Software
Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your option) any later
version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT ANY
WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along with
this program.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
